1. INTRODUCTION
The security surveillance system is designed to detect intruders using an Ultrasonic sensor. Once an intruder is detected, an alarm alerting system is triggered, causing a buzzer to beep. While the buzzer is beeping, an email is sent to the farmer to notify them of the intrusion. The buzzer can only be turned off by farmers whose fingerprints have been recorded using an Adafruit fingerprint sensor. This prevents intruders from accessing the buzzer and turning it off. The activities from the fingerprint sensor are saved to an online server, which can be viewed to make decisions about when intrusions are most often detected. The system uses an ESP8266 microcontroller to transmit the information, connecting it to Wi-Fi to facilitate communication.
 
a. INITIAL SETUP AND CONFIGURATION
Before starting the project, there are a few setup steps that need to be completed:
1.     Connect to Wi-Fi: The ESP8266 microcontroller needs to be connected to the farm's Wi-Fi network for it to transmit information. This can be done by inputting the Wi-Fi SSID and password into the software used to control the system.
2.     Input Farmer's Email Addresses: The system needs to know where to send the email notifications when an intrusion is detected. We will input the email addresses of where the intrusion email needs to be sent to.
3. Enrol the farmers' fingerprints: Before using the system, the fingerprints of the farmers need to be recorded using the Adafruit fingerprint sensor. This step needs to be done from the database we will provide the farmer. This step needs to be done anytime a new farmer is added. Only the fingerprints of the farmers that have been previously recorded will be recognized. This prevents intruders from accessing the buzzer and turning it off.  To prevent technical glitches, the enrollment will have to be done by the team to ensure efficient operation of the system.
Remember, these steps need to be completed before the system is powered on and begins operating. If the Wi-Fi network or the farmer's email addresses change, we will need to update this information in the system.
 
b. HOW Farm.io INTRUDER DETECTOR WORKs? (STEP BY STEP PROCESS TO OPERATE IT)
1. 	Power on the system: The farmer will need to switch on the power supply to the system. This will activate the Ultrasonic sensor and the ESP8266 microcontroller. The power will mostly depend on the wind power system designed by the other teams as these are efficient and cost-effective. The system has in-built batteries, however, to ensure constant power supply, the power system on the farm will be utilised.
2. 	Monitor for alerts: The Ultrasonic sensor continuously scans the area for movement. If movement is detected, the alarm system is triggered, and the buzzer starts beeping.
3. 	Check email notifications: As soon as movement is detected, an email is automatically sent to the farmer notifying them of the intrusion. The farmer should regularly check their email for these notifications.
4. 	Turn off the buzzer: While the buzzer is beeping, the workers on the farm will have to turn it off. To turn off the buzzer, the farmer must place their finger on the Adafruit fingerprint sensor. Once the database matches with the finger, it will turn off the buzzer. If the worker’s finger is not enrolled, the buzzer will still be on.
5. 	Review activity logs: The activities from the fingerprint sensor are saved to an online server via the ESP8266 microcontroller. The farmer can log into the server to review these logs and determine when intrusions are most often detected.
